# GSSI_summer_2023

Collection of stuff I did at GSSI during the summer of 2023

## Conference

Attended [Advances in Space AstroParticle Physics (ASAPP) 2023](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1208314/)

## Geant4

Created 2 Geant4 simulations

#### radHardening

Simulation of the effects of different types of shielding on the damage caused by particles in the Earths radiation environment on spacecraft electronics. Part of research on effects of space radiation on commercial off-the-shelf electronics (COTS componenets).

#### Fragmented

Simulation of secondary particles created when a high energy ion beam goes through a "fragmenter" material that is longer than the radiation lenght of the primary particle. Attempts to recreate the results of [this paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9912355) by R. G. Alía et al.

## zire

NUSES is a new space mission aiming to test innovative observational and technological approaches related to the study of low-energy cosmic and gamma rays, high-energy astrophysical neutrinos, Sun-Earth environment, Space weather and magnetosphere-ionosphere-lithosphere coupling (MILC). The satellite will host two payloads, named Terzina and Zire ́. 
Zire’ will perform measurements of electrons, protons and light nuclei from few up to hundreds of MeV, also testing new tools for the detection of cosmic MeV photons, and monitoring of MILC signals. TERZINA will observe the Cherenkov light produced by EAS generated by cosmic ray primaries at very high energies and will monitor the light emissions from the Earth limb in the near UV and visible ranges at the ns time scale, thus testing the observational concept of detecting Earth skimming astrophysical high energy neutrinos.

I worked on setting up the various parts of a prototype of the Zire ́ detector for initial calibration and testing.
Also created python scripts to analyse and visualise the data collected.
